High-Dimensional Integrator (HDIntegrator) is a program for parallel numerical integration of functions in arbitrary number of dimensions, see paper.md for a general overview.

Installation and testing is detailed in the INSTALL file but at least Python 3 and an implementation of Message Passing Interface is required along with mpi4py.
Separate programs are used for evaluating integrals numerically and are provided in the integrands directory.
These have their own prerequisites as detailed in INSTALL.

The program main_mpi.py must be called using at least two MPI processes and must include a serial program to use as an integrand and the number of dimensions to integrate in:
mpiexec -n 5 ./main_mpi.py --integrator integrands/N-sphere.py --dimensions 2
Calling the program with the --help argument will list available options and further usage instructions.
The result consists of one line with the integral's value, absolute error and fraction of volume relative to total volume in which the integrand failed to return a value.

Communication between main_mpi.py and integrands is handled via standard input and output in ASCII format.
Each line given to the integrand by main_mpi.py consists of floating point numbers separated by spaces:
C a0 a1 b0 b1 c0 c1 ...
where C is the number of samples to use for evaluating the integral and a0, a1, b0, etc. represent the minimum and maximum extent of the integration volume respectively.
Note that the number of dimensions might change from one line to another, although that is not the case currently.
Each line received from the integrand by main_mpi.py must consist of three floating point numbers separated by spaces in ASCII format:
V E S
where V is the value of the integral, E is an estimate of the absolute integration error and S is the suggested dimension starting from 0 in which to split the integration volume in order to minimize subsequent integration errors.

To seek support or report an issue in HDIntegrator please create a new issue at https://github.com/iljah/hdintegrator/issues

To contribute to HDIntegrator please create a new pull request at https://github.com/iljah/hdintegrator/pulls
